Add 1 FTE enforcement policy (#1685)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Governance/ROS2-TSC-Charter.rst

The TSC cannot compel or oblige any action on the part of a member, his or her organization, or that organization’s employees.

#. Material contribution is the commitment of a minimum level of effort toward developing software and/or documentation that is contributed to the project under the appropriate open source license.

>    This contribution may be in the form of in-kind labor and/or outsourced work to the ROS 2 Common Packages (REP-2005).

Reviewer: I propose we make this REP-2005  or similar contribution with prior approval of the the three person evaluation panel. I would consider things like build farm improvements, educational outreach, website improvements and maintenance, and some other packages as potentially valuable to the TSC.

Author: That is not a rule, because it let's the criteria change at any time, and also it would require a votation. I don't think is a good idea. There should be a clear definition of what is a valid contribution, and that's REP 2005.

We have rejected potential members with a lot of educational contributions, to set an example.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @kscottz those activities are valuable and should be encouraged. This topic and several like it have come up a couple of times now and the proposals haven't been changed to accommodate more flexibility for other critical community / project roles that don't neatly fit into this box. I would strongly object to anything that would be written so narrowly or enforced so strictly that those activities wouldn't be rewarded.

Author: Valid contributions are a long time ago defined to be contributions to REP 2005. This was discussed in our last TSC meeting.

Reviewer 2: While certainly this is something that impacts Samsung, its a broader theme I'm concerned about. If we're going to codify these changes, this is the perfect opportunity to adjust things to be more in line with the intent of the TSC -- to provide leadership to ROS2 development. Kat brings up a reasonable adjustment, though I might go a step further. 

The reason we have rejected other membership applications wasn't that they were educational, it was that they were educational only being applied to a proprietary platform and the materials weren't listed on official ROS2 documentation websites without hooks into that platform.  I would generally expect if a company applied to be purely doing educational resources living in ROS official locations not tied to a product that that application would be approved.

Author: "official ROS2 documentation websites" -> and again, that is in REP-2005

   No fees or payments beyond material contribution to the project are required for TSC membership.

#. The minimum level of effort commitment required to qualify for TSC membership is **1 full-time equivalent (FTE)**.
   This level may be changed by the TSC via a standard TSC motion and vote.

>    The member should provide an effort report monthly in the corresponding TSC meeting minutes and complete at least one item of the roadmap of every ROS 2 release. TSC members are encouraged to add their planned items to the public roadmap.

Reviewer 3: what about the minor issues which are not really mentioned in the roadmap, but we do daily and weekly issue investigation, review and minor fixes? how would it be reported in this way?

Author: @fujitatomoya there is no change there, you can still report that in the meeting minutes. We encourage to contribute to the roadmap, and if you are for example fixing bugs, you can add a line to the roadmap about improving the quality or decreasing the number of bugs in some percentage. But also, you can just report that in the TSC meeting minutes as always.

What we are going to evaluate is the whole effort, both the roadmap items and what you report in the TSC meeting minutes.

Reviewer 3: okay, that makes sense. thanks

> #. Enforcement of 1 FTE contribution: Every 6 months the contributions of the TSC members will be reviewed by a review panel composed of 3 TSC members. If the panel considers a member is not fulfilling the required membership effort, the concern will be communicated to TSC, and a vote will be ruled to decide if this member should continue being part of the TSC.

Reviewer: Proposal: we evaluate contributions on a semi-annual basis and give all orgs a two quarter grace period to come into compliance. While we would prefer regular contributions, contributions from smaller orgs / startups could be lumpy (e.g. a push to build a feature for a release followed by some down time). After the grace period, if the org is not in compliance we would give the org five minutes to make their case followed by a simple majority vote by the TSC.

Author: if the members know they are going to be monitored, there is no need for a grace period. They are not kids, but companies. We are not going to really discuss if they are in 1 FTE or 0.80 FTE. This 1 FTE enforcement PR is really for very clear cases in which the member is not contributing at all, and it is totally clear.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @kscottz, this is a small community and there's no reason to burn bridges or give people the opportunity to shape up when faced with a challenge. It's in everyone's best interest long term to give people reasonable latitude. 

For example, what if I've accrued 2 months of PTO and I want to travel? When I come back, would I just be booted off the TSC for not pulling my weight? These rules should have some latitude in them.

Author: If it is 2 months, nothing happens. The stated period is 6 months. 

If you disappear for 6 months, then yes, you will be out of the TSC.

Reviewer 4: I agree with @kscottz here on the fact that one must have the right to make ones case and this should be clearly stated.

Author: that is for sure @artivis , if the panel raises an issue with a TSC member, the member can answer and present its case at the same time. Remember we always can talk at the TSC.

Reviewer 4: I never doubted this was implicit :wink: . But since this PR defines rules and processes, then it should be made explicit.
E.g.

```suggestion
#. Enforcement of 1 FTE contribution: Every 6 months the contributions of the TSC members will be reviewed by a review panel composed of 3 TSC members. If the panel considers a member is not fulfilling the required membership effort, the concern will be communicated to TSC. After hearing the member, a vote will be ruled to decide if this member should continue being part of the TSC.
```

Author: I have no problem adding this. Let's comment this minor detail after the voting, as you said it was implicit.
